README.md, before:

# dotfiles

Manage home directory with `git` directly

- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Features](#features)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Initialize](#initialize)
  - [Update (for those kept this repo as `upstream`)](#update-for-those-kept-this-repo-as-upstream)
  - [Uninstall](#uninstall)
- [Repo Maintenance](#repo-maintenance)
  - [Adding files or directories](#adding-files-or-directories)
- [LICENSE](#license)

## Purpose

There are a lot of dotfile projects, but in my personal experience, most of them only provides example configurations of various kinds of tools, this project is trying to embrace these projects with some concise core files:

- Organized customization using existing dotfile projects (without changing core files)
- Continuous update of core files with git

## Features

- [`git` config management for multiple workspaces](./docs/git.md)
- [`zsh` config management with `oh-my-zsh`](./docs/zsh.md)
- [`kubectl` config management with `kubie`](./docs/kubectl.md)

## Usage

### Prerequisites

- `git` >= `2.25.0`

### Initialize

#### Before you start

1. Backup your existing `${HOME}` directory (or just move it to somewhere else)
2. Remove existing home directory (`rm -rf ${HOME}`)

__NOTE:__ DO NOT fork this repo for private syncing purpose

#### Option 1: Keep this repo as `upstream`

1. Clone this repo as your home directory
    - `git clone --no-checkout --recursive https://github.com/jeffreystoke/dotfiles.git ${HOME}`
1. Go to `${HOME}` and checkout files
    - Set sparse-checkout mode: `git sparse-checkout init`
    - (Optional) Update `.gitkeep` to keep expected directories and files only
    - Ckeckout expected files: `cat .gitkeep | git sparse-checkout set --stdin`
1. Move files back to your `${HOME}` and resolve possible overrides according to `git status`
1. Use private repo for secret config syncing
   - Rename `origin` to `upstream`: `git remote rename origin upstream`
   - Forbid unexpected push to `upstream`: `git config remote.upstream.pushurl 'STOP PUSHING TO PUBLIC UPSTREAM'`
   - Add your private repo as `origin`: `git remote add origin ${MY_PRIVATE_REPO_URL}`

#### Option 2: Use this repo as template

1. Create a new private repo using this repo as template
1. Follow steps listed in [option 1](#option-1-keep-this-repo-as-upstream) (change the repo url to yours) and skip the last step

### Update (for those kept this repo as `upstream`)

1. Go to `${HOME}`
1. Run `git stash` to save all overrides to `${HOME}`
1. Update dotfiles by executing `git pull upstream master --rebase`
1. Run `git stash pop` and resolve all conflicts
1. Commit your changes and push to `origin`

### Uninstall

1. Backup your dotfiles
1. Remove all files from this project by running `git sparse-checkout set ""`
1. Remove `${HOME}/.git`

## Repo Maintenance

### Adding files or directories

The [root `.gitignore`](./.gitignore) is configured to ignore all files by default for `${HOME}`, so when you want to add files in this repo, you must:

- Add new files and directories
- Update `.gitignore` to exclude new files
- If the new files are expected to present in `${HOME}`, add them to `.gitkeep`

## LICENSE

MIT

Commit message:

docs: Update usage in README
Signed-off-by: Jeffrey Stoke <me@arhat.dev>

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

Manage `${HOME}` directory with `git` directly

- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Features](#features)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Initialize your `${HOME}`](#initialize-your-home)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Update (for those kept this repo as `upstream`)](#update-for-those-kept-this-repo-as-upstream)
  - [Uninstall](#uninstall)
- [Repo Maintenance](#repo-maintenance)
  - [Adding files or directories](#adding-files-or-directories)
- [LICENSE](#license)

## Purpose

There are a lot of dotfile projects, but in my personal experience, most of them only provides example configurations of various kinds of tools, this project is trying to embrace these projects with some concise core files:

- Organized customization using existing dotfile projects (without changing core files)
- Continuous update of core files with git

## Features

- [`git` config management for multiple workspaces](./docs/git.md)
- [`zsh` config management with `oh-my-zsh`](./docs/zsh.md)
- [`kubectl` config management with `kubie`](./docs/kubectl.md)

## Usage

### Prerequisites

- `git` >= `2.25.0`

### Initialize your `${HOME}`

#### Before you start

1. Backup your existing `${HOME}` directory
1. Remove existing `${HOME}` directory or move it to somewhere else

__NOTE:__ DO NOT fork this repo for private syncing purpose

#### Option 1: Keep this repo as `upstream`

1. Clone this repo as your `${HOME}` directory
    - `git clone --no-checkout --recursive https://github.com/jeffreystoke/dotfiles.git ${HOME}`
1. Go to `${HOME}` and checkout files
    - Set sparse-checkout mode: `git sparse-checkout init`
    - (Optional) Update `.gitkeep` to keep expected directories and files only
    - Ckeckout expected files: `cat .gitkeep | git sparse-checkout set --stdin`
1. Move files back to your `${HOME}` and resolve possible overrides according to `git status`
1. Use private repo for secret config syncing
   - Rename `origin` to `upstream`: `git remote rename origin upstream`
   - Forbid unexpected push to `upstream`: `git config remote.upstream.pushurl 'STOP PUSHING TO PUBLIC UPSTREAM'`
   - Add your private repo as `origin`: `git remote add origin ${MY_PRIVATE_REPO_URL}`

#### Option 2: Use this repo as template

1. Create a new private repo using this repo as template
1. Follow steps listed in [option 1](#option-1-keep-this-repo-as-upstream) (change the repo url to yours) and skip the last step

### Setup

Configure tools following instructions in [feature docs](#features)

### Update (for those kept this repo as `upstream`)

1. Go to `${HOME}`
1. Run `git stash` to save all overrides to `${HOME}`
1. Update dotfiles by executing `git pull upstream master --rebase`
1. Run `git stash pop` and resolve all conflicts
1. Commit your changes and push to `origin`

### Uninstall

1. Backup your dotfiles
1. Remove all files from this project by running `git sparse-checkout set ""`
1. Remove `${HOME}/.git`

## Repo Maintenance

### Adding files or directories

The [root `.gitignore`](./.gitignore) is configured to ignore all files by default for `${HOME}`, so when you want to add files in this repo, you must:

- Add new files and directories
- Update `.gitignore` to exclude new files
- If the new files are expected to present in `${HOME}`, add them to `.gitkeep`

## LICENSE

MIT
